rails api quickstart (#2176)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/tutorials/integrate-ruby-rails-api.md

```ruby
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/main/ruby/Gemfile %}

Install the gems.

```shell
bundle install
```

Then copy and paste the following code into the `setup.rb` file.

```ruby
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/main/ruby/setup-api.rb %}
```
Then, you can run the setup script.

{% include _callout-note.liquid content="The setup script is designed to run on a newly installed FusionAuth instance with only one user and no tenants other than `Default`. To follow this guide on a FusionAuth instance that does not meet these criteria, you may need to modify the above script. <br><br> Refer to the [Ruby client library](/docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/ruby) documentation for more information." %}

This will create the FusionAuth configuration for your {{page.technology}} API.

```shell
fusionauth_api_key=YOUR_API_KEY_FROM_ABOVE ruby setup.rb
```

If you are using PowerShell, you will need to set the environment variable in a separate command before executing the script.

```shell
$env:fusionauth_api_key='YOUR_API_KEY_FROM_ABOVE'
ruby setup.rb
```

> If you want, you can http://localhost:9011[login to your instance] and examine the new API configuration the script created for you. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want, you can [log into your instance](http://localhost:9011) and examine the new API configuration the script created for you.
```

## Create Your {{page.technology}} API

Now you are going to create a {{page.technology}} API. While this section builds a simple {{page.technology}} API, you can use the same configuration to build a more complex {{page.technology}} API.

First, create the skeleton of the {{page.technology}} API. Rails has a nice generator to build this out.

```shell
rails new myapi --api && cd myapi
```

> Now, create a new `Gemfile` file.

Reviewer 2: we did provide explicit `touch` and `copy` instructions for this earlier. Rails already creates this one. This file also may bump with the ruby version (I was running 2.7.5 running through this but the included one references 3.2.2. Looks like we're just adding deps.

```shell
bundle install
```

Next, create a file called `.env.development` and insert the following into it.

```ini
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-rails-api-guide/main/.env.development %}
```

You can now start writing the code for your Rails API. First, let's create a controller which gives back a JSON message. Create a new file called `app/controllers/messages_controller.rb`, then add the following code:

```ruby
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-rails-api-guide/main/app/controllers/messages_controller.rb %}
```

This controller returns a JSON array with messages.

Next, update the `config/routes.rb` file to look like this:

```ruby
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-rails-api-guide/main/config/routes.rb %}
```

This tells {{page.technology}} to return the content generated by the `messages_controller.rb` file when the `/messages` path is set up.

You can now start up your server. You should do it in a new terminal window so that you can continue to edit the {{page.technology}} code.

```shell
bundle e rails s -p 4001
```

> And visit [http://localhost:4001/messages](http://localhost:4001/messages) and view the JSON.

Reviewer 2: This renders an error on line 7 of include.
<img width="983" alt="Screenshot 2023-05-17 at 1 18 29 PM 1" src="https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/assets/11809481/c6a27a4e-baf4-4302-9c75-e8704fc01665">

Author: Thanks, resolved.

Next, let's configure the token protection for this API. Go back to your previous terminal window and create a `config/initializers/jwt_rack.rb` file, and update it to look like this:

```ruby
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-rails-api-guide/main/config/initializers/jwt_rack.rb %}
```

This tells {{page.technology}} to check for various attributes of the token, including the `iss` and the `aud`. Read the [`rack_jwt` gem documentation](https://github.com/FusionAuth/rack-jwt/) for more.

You can also access the JWT in the controller. Below, the messages controller adds a special message if the user has a certain role.

```ruby
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-rails-api-guide/main/app/controllers/messages_controller.rb %}
```

Now, back to the terminal where your server is running. Stop it (using `control-C`) and restart it.

```shell
bundle e rails s -p 4001
```

Visit [http://localhost:4001/messages](http://localhost:4001/messages), you'll get an error:

```json

> {"error":"Invalid JWT token : Decode Error"}

Reviewer 2: I got `{"error":"Missing token cookie and Authorization header"}`

```

Your API is protected. Now, let's get an access token so authorized clients can get the API results.

## Testing the API Flow

There are a number of ways to get an access token, as mentioned, but for clarity, let's use the login API to mimic a client. 

Run this command in a terminal:

```shell
curl -H 'Authorization: YOUR_API_KEY_FROM_ABOVE' \
     -H 'Content-type: application/json' \

>      -d '{"loginId": "admin@example.com", "password":"password","applicationId": "e9fdb985-9173-4e01-9d73-ac2d60d1dc8e"} \

Reviewer 2: We should call out that this should be an existing user. `admin@example.com` won't exist here and likely the only user that has been set up is the admin user created at the start.

also 
```suggestion
     -d '{"loginId": "admin@example.com", "password":"password","applicationId": "e9fdb985-9173-4e01-9d73-ac2d60d1dc8e"}' \
```

Author: Great catch.

---
layout: doc
title: Integrate Your Ruby on Rails API With FusionAuth
description: Integrate your Ruby on Rails API with FusionAuth
navcategory: getting-started
prerequisites: Ruby, bundler and Rails
technology: Ruby on Rails
language: Ruby
---

## Integrate Your {{page.technology}} API With FusionAuth

> {% include docs/integration/_intro-api.md %}

Reviewer 2: These links appear to be broken when I try to run this locally. Are we missing some pages?

Author: Ooops, I need to commit and push the file up.

Author: Should be there now.

## Prerequisites

{% include docs/integration/_prerequisites.md %}

## Download and Install FusionAuth

{% include docs/integration/_install-fusionauth.md %}

## Create a User and an API Key

{% include docs/integration/_add-user.md %}

## Configure FusionAuth

Next, you need to set up FusionAuth. This can be done in different ways, but we’re going to use the [{{page.language}} client library](/docs/v1/tech/client-libraries/ruby). You can use the client library with an IDE of your preference as well.

First, make a directory:

```shell
mkdir setup-fusionauth && cd setup-fusionauth
```

Then, create the required files:

```shell
touch Gemfile
```

Now, copy and paste the following file into `Gemfile`.

```ruby
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-client-libraries/main/ruby/Gemfile %}

> 

Reviewer 2: need closing backticks here
